[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>LISA GARR: Hi, I'm Lisa Garr,
host of Gaiam Inspirations.
Welcome to our beautiful
Los Angeles studio.
One thing I can promise
you about this show
is that we're always going
to ask you to transform
your belief systems, to
challenge your belief systems.
And that's exactly
what we're doing today.
We're going to go
on a psychic journey
with animal communicator,
Amelia Kinkade.
And we're going to learn how to
communicate with our animals.
Amelia and her
unique abilities have
been the focus of many national
TV shows, hundreds of articles
centered around
animal communication.
But her true passion is
assisting animal rescue
organizations in
Africa who create
safe havens for relocated
tigers, and lions,
and elephants, and
cheetahs, and so much more.
And Amelia also worked
with the Olympic horses
for the 2012 Olympics in London.
And she is here in
studio to teach us
how to listen to the
animals who really own us,
that's what you say, right?
They own us.
>>AMELIA KINKADE: Well,
they definitely own us.
>>LISA: They do.
But we always say
they're our pets.
Do they take offense to that?
>>KINKADE: Well, I
take offense to that.
I mean, the word "pet"
is very demeaning.
And one of the most amazing
things about these creatures
is that this is the closest
spiritual teacher that you'll
ever have in your
heart and home.
And they teach us
unconditional love.
They teach us how to give
it, and they teach us
how to receive it.
>>LISA: So when people say
that animals have jealousy,
or they have, they try to
manipulate you and so forth,
do they have that
emotional capacity?
>>KINKADE: Of course.
>>LISA: They do?
We are one of five
kinds of apes.
We don't like to admit the
fact that the human monkey is
an ape.
We are an animal.
So if we think in terms
of we are an animal,
and every other
creature on this planet
can think and feel
in very similar ways.
We've really
undermined their scope.
For some strange
reason, human beings
think that their
superior in some way
to all the other
beings on this Earth,
and it's simply not true.
Now one of the most
skeptical radio
shows I've ever done-- I've
done a lot of radio shows,
and sometimes the
radio hosts just
want to take me down
in a kick boxing match.
This is really funny.
But one guy, he was
just going at it.
He was going for the throat.
And at the end of the
entire interview, he said,
"You know what, Amelia,
I know you're right
that animals think in pictures,
and that they feel emotion."
And I said, "How
do you know that?"
And he said, "Because
I know my dog dreams."
>>LISA: Hmm.
>>KINKADE: I watch her dream.
So as she's rolling around
thinking and kicking and--
>>LISA: Making sounds.
>>KINKADE: Of course, we
all think in pictures.
And we all feel emotion.
We all have sensation
in our body.
That translated into the
animal communication lingo,
the language of miracles,
which is what I teach.
Clairaudience is clear
hearing in Latin.
Now that's the ability
to take information
that you're picking up
and turn it into words.
It's not because the
cat is speaking English.
>>LISA: Right.
>>KINKADE: It's because you do.
So as you're taking
in a frequency,
they're sending a frequency.
We're all sending frequencies
out into the world around us.
>>LISA: All day.
Um-hmm.
>>KINKADE: And we function
as radio stations.
Human beings send out, out, out.
The only reason that we
can't hear the animals
is because we drown them out.
>>AMELIA KINKADE:
So we need to learn
to receive their
communication, their pictures?
>>KINKADE: We need to
learn how to listen.
We need to learn how
to sit in silence.
You do send an emotion
or send a wave that
disturbs the field
just the exact same way
that a dolphin sends sonar.
When a dolphin sends sonar,
it disturbs the water,
and that energy goes forward,
and it touches an object,
and it forms a feedback loop.
Now it's going to come back with
the distance of that object,
the contents of that
object, the shape.
That's why a dolphin can
tell if a woman's pregnant
or if a man has
metal in his body.
That's why the military
is using them now.
>>LISA: Yes
>>KINKADE: So we also
have that capacity.
>>LISA: So you have spent
a lot of time in the wild,
a lot of time in Africa, a
lot of time communicating
with these animals in
their natural habitat,
and also those that
are in captivity.
And your experience and
where you've been really
does tell this
story about how they
communicate with each other.
And tell me the difference
between an animal that's
in the wild, say,
for example, a lion
or a cheetah in the wild
and one that's in captivity.
What do you get?
>>KINKADE: They all
have similar stories.
And if you live in the
San Fernando Valley,
I'll give you a for
instance that you
would experience at home.
One year on Thanksgiving a
few years ago-- of course,
I've been told don't
fee the raccoons.
Everybody says don't
feed the raccoons,
because they can be dangerous.
They carry diseases.
We, in California, are not
supposed to feed the raccoons.
So, of course, what do I do?
I can't wait to
feed the raccoons.
It's Thanksgiving day.
I have all these
delicious leftovers,
and I was sitting, waiting
and praying that one of them
would come.
And out of the
corner of my yard,
this little face appears,
and here she comes.
And I said to her,
are you alone?
And she said, no, my
partner's with me.
And I said, is it
a boy or a girl.
She said, it's a boy.
I said, is it your husband?
She said, no, it's my son.
And I said, would you
please go get him for me?
And she said, OK,
I'll go get him.
She disappears, comes
back with her baby.
And the two of them did the
world's cutest thing where
they wash their
hands, and they wash
the little pieces of apples
and yams that I'd given them,
and the grapes, and
they ate with me.
And I honored the fact that it
was Thanksgiving for them, too.
And if there's one
thing I'm thankful for,
it's that there are other
animals on this planet.
>>LISA: Yes, I can
understand that.
We actually have a
whole demo reel of you
in action with your animals.
I want the audience
to take a look
at Amelia Kinkade in action.
Take a look.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>LISA: So you have done
amazing work with these animals.
Now the ones that
are in captivity.
What is it that they say to you?
Do they like to be in captivity?
Do they--
>>KINKADE: I'll tell you
what, every single case is
individual.
And this is very controversial
for me to say this,
because even when I wrote
my first book, "Straight
from the Horse's Mouth," which
was the last time I saw you.
It was 2001 then.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>KINKADE: And that sent me on
a world tour for the last 11
years teaching in 10
to 15 countries a year.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>KINKADE: Really amazing.
And back then, I was
completely anti-zoo.
Now I work very closely
with the Johannesburg zoo.
And some of the happiest
animals in captivity I've
ever seen in my life--
>>LISA: Really?
>>KINKADE: --are in
the Johannesburg Zoo.
And the last time I
was in Los Angeles,
I visited the zoo after hours.
One of the docents
give me a private tour.
And I discovered that
all of our animals
have been rescued from
horrendous situations.
It's really unfair
to say, well, we
don't agree with having
any animals in captivity,
because the bottom line is
there's nowhere for them to go.
>>LISA: Well, that's
refreshing to hear.
We went on a zoo field
trip with my daughter who
we're going to meet
in a little bit,
and it's such a great
educational experience
for kids to be able
to go to the zoo
and see these animals that
they would really never
see in their lifetime.
So that part of it does
definitely serve its purpose,
but I always wonder, do
they enjoy it in there?
>>KINKADE: Every single
one is individual.
>>LISA: Um-hmm.
That makes sense.
>>KINKADE: And it also
depends on their enclosures.
When I went up to the
orangutans-- here's
another baby story-- I was
going from each pen to pen
asking the animals, how are you?
Are you OK?
Do you need anything
that you're not getting?
Are you happy?
In Joburg, they'll take
in the national news
and actually get the
animals what they need.
They'll listen to what
the animals tell me,
and they'll make the changes,
as they did on the Olympic show
horse team.
That was outrageous.
>>LISA: I can't wait
to hear that story.
>>KINKADE: Another
amazing story, but this
is a pretty amazing story.
So some of the animals are
not as happy as others.
Elephants in captivity are
a very controversial topic.
In general, they don't
belong in the zoo at all.
>>LISA: Why is that?
>>KINKADE: Because they need
to roam several miles a day.
One of the most humane zoos
I've ever seen in my life
was in Northern England.
A lady named Molly Baden
would move the enclosures back
so the elephants could walk
a fresh mile every morning.
They're herd animals.
They need to be in groups.
They're more family
oriented than we are.
They're more loving than we are.
If one elephant
gets sick, the herd
will assign a doctor or a nurse.
If there's a baby,
there's an entire group
of nannies and midwives.
It's not just the mom.
They grieve their dead.
They bury their dead.
They have a more humane
operative society
than human beings do.
But this story is about an
orangutan in a Los Angeles zoo.
This enormous orangutan
came up to me,
and I was standing
looking at her enclosure.
Fortunately, we have a beautiful
swing set, and we've got nets,
and it's really nice.
And I said how are you?
And she said, oh-- now
again, this sounds insane,
but I pick up pictures.
We all think in pictures.
When we learn how
to quiet our minds,
we can start picking
up images as if you're
watching a movie, from
another living human being.
And that's how you know
when somebody's lying.
>>LISA: Quieting your
mind is the key, though.
>>KINKADE: Right.
>>LISA: OK.
>>KINKADE: And everybody
has this experience
that they know that a person
is not telling the truth,
or not telling the whole truth.
Or if you're a
mother, you know when
your daughter is lying to you.
Even if they're a good liar, the
feelings in your body are cues.
I teach people to use their
bodies as instruments.
So I said to this mom,
are you all right?
And I got an incredible
feeling of joy and well being
and, again, if you can translate
that frequency of energy
into language, something that
happens inside your brain.
It's not that the
animal's speaking English,
it's that your brain is
translating it into something
you understand.
That could be a picture.
That could be a smell.
That could be a feeling.
That could be a taste.
And she said, I want you
to thank the humans here,
because they've taken
such wonderful care
of me and my baby.
And I said, you have a baby?
She said, yes, I
have a new infant.
And my baby might not have
lived if the humans hadn't
intervened.
The humans took wonderful
care of my baby.
Now, I couldn't see any
baby in this enclosure,
and I said, wow, well,
where's your baby?
She swings out of sight and
comes back with a tiny infant.
>>LISA: Little.
>>KINKADE: A tiny
orangutan infant
with a little hair
like a porcupine.
And she holds the baby up to
me, so that I can meet her baby.
>>LISA: Wow.
I've seen those
orangutans in the zoo just
laying out, and feeding,
and enjoying life.
Yes, they do have
a really good time.
Speaking of babies,
we have a picture here
of you feeding, with a baby
bottle, a gigantic animal.
>>KINKADE: Now that's my baby.
That's actually the
only tiger that's
ever been on the Jay Leno Show.
It's a movie star tiger.
>>LISA: Oh, wow.
It's a huge tiger.
>>KINKADE: I went up
to this sanctuary,
and the man actually trains
animals for the movies which,
again, is quite controversial.
I wanted to see for myself
how they're treated.
>>LISA: I'm glad you did.
OK.
>>KINKADE: I walked
into his pen,
and the man who runs
the place-- you'll
have to get on my
website to find it out.
I don't want to blow the
whistle for him on your TV show.
>>LISA: OK.
>>KINKADE: He's a
very big skeptic,
so he comes out
la, la, la, la, la.
And I said to the tiger,
what's your favorite toy.
And he said, it's
an orange ball.
And I said, who's
your best friend?
He said it's a lion.
I said, a lion?
He said, yeah, it's a lion.
And an orange ball?
He said, oh yeah, he
throws the orange ball.
I love the orange ball.
So I told the man.
He almost fainted.
>>LISA: Who is the
animal wrangler?
>>KINKADE: Right.
>>LISA: Didn't believe
in animal communication.
>>KINKADE: No, didn't at all.
And then he said he'd spent
the day playing football
with this tiger with
an orange football.
And then he opens the
enclosure next to him
and the lion comes rushing
at-- you don't see this.
You don't see lions
and tigers that
are best friends who
roll around together.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>KINKADE: They
had other animals
who named their friends by name.
You've got a kangaroo picture.
>>LISA: Oh, yeah,
there's a couple there.
>>KINKADE: You've got a kangaroo
picture, and I'll tell you,
this is one of the
funniest stories.
When we were on the
way to the sanctuary,
I was tuning into somebody who
was very impatiently waiting
to meet me.
And this person was really
upset, pacing back and forth.
And I said where are you?
And he said, I'm in this
horrible metal cage,
and I don't belong in here,
and I shouldn't be in here.
And when are you coming?
And so I was with Amy Smart at
the time, the beautiful movie
star.
She had just done a fashion show
that had some of these animals.
And some animal rights'
activists came down on her
very strongly, so
I went up to see
how they're actually treated.
We went up together
so that we could
vouch for the place, which
I can more than vouch for.
And when I got to this
impatient, angry animal,
it was a little wallaby.
And the wallaby said
to me, tell my keeper--
And I said, what
does she look like?
And he said, well, she's got
long, beautiful, brunette,
curly hair.
Looks kind of like you.
And he said, well,
tell her that I
want to get in the
Jacuzzi with her,
and I want to get in the
Jacuzzi under the stars.
I go out in the
green grass, and she
gets in the Jacuzzi
under the stars,
but I want to get in the
Jacuzzi under the stars.
I said, what's your
favorite place to be?
He said I like to sit in her
arms in front of the fire
as we watch TV.
>>LISA: The kangaroo?
>>KINKADE: The
kangaroo says this.
Now I couldn't have
been more out on a limb
that I was thinking,
if I say this,
I'm going to sound bona fide
crazy, like lock me up crazy.
And I went ahead and told them.
The keeper came out
who looks like you,
had just moved him from
her home in West Hollywood
where he was kept in
the grass by the Jacuzzi
that she would get in
under the stars at night,
and he wasn't allowed
to get in the Jacuzzi.
He'd sit and watch her
get in the Jacuzzi.
And she said his favorite
place in the world
was sitting in
front of fireplace
watching TV snuggling
in her arms.
>>LISA: Oh, my goodness,
what an amazing kangaroo.
>>KINKADE: But
every living being
is thinking, feeling, and having
an experience of life on Earth
that's very similar to ours.
They grieve, they laugh,
they miss their families.
They miss their mates.
They're frustrated.
They have an incredible scope
of emotion and rational thought.
>>LISA: You have
an amazing story
about the animal that
witnessed an actual murder.
>>KINKADE: I do, and I've
just released my first crime
novel, which is a wicked,
scandalous, hilarious novel.
But it's based on
a true concept.
And many years ago,
I was contacted
by a woman who thought that her
daughter had committed suicide.
And she had the daughter's dog.
Now this suicide
happened in London,
and the woman was in the US.
She contacted me to try
to rehabilitate the dog.
And when I tuned
into the dog, the dog
showed me the beautiful,
young woman getting murdered.
It was not a suicide.
It was a murder.
>>LISA: That's terrifying for
you to be able to visualize.
>>KINKADE: And I had it
re-enacted in front of my eyes.
And I could see the murderer.
I could see every
detail about the murder.
This is incredibly creepy.
I mean, this is like something
out of an Alfred Hitchcock
story, really.
He hung her by a dog collar
on the back of a door.
>>LISA: Too much information.
>>KINKADE: Crazy.
But the dog named the murderer
by name, gave me the name.
>>LISA: So what did you do?
>>KINKADE: And it turned out
to be the girl's boyfriend.
And Scotland Yard kept the case
open on the testimony of a dog.
>>LISA: Through an
animal communicator,
which would be you.
>>KINKADE: Though me.
>>LISA: Through you.
>>KINKADE: And on a
more practical level,
there have been studies
done with plants
that when an EKG is
hooked up to a plant,
even a plant will
respond to violence.
If someone who was violent in
a room walks into the same--
these plants have registered
that frequency of violence.
So of course, a dog would be
able to identify a killer.
>>LISA: And so
would pets at home.
>>KINKADE: You could
put cats in a lineup,
they're going to react.
>>LISA: Hmm, really.
You could put cats in a lineup.
You could put dogs in a lineup,
and they would react to--
>>KINKADE: Of
course, they would.
>>LISA: Huh, and so
this person was caught,
I believe, and you've probably
done a lot of different animal
communications with
the police department
with different investigators.
Are they skeptical?
>>KINKADE: Absolutely not.
You wouldn't believe how
supportive the police are.
If I contact the police--
I worked on a case
where there were horses present,
and if I'm getting specifics,
that the criminal was
a veterinarian's son
who got back at his dad
by mutilating horses,
and their last name
was Cunningham.
Then the veterinarians--
I mean the police
have something to go on.
>>LISA: Any lead is a good lead.
>>KINKADE: They
always say thank you.
Thank you.
We suspected it was the
veterinarian's son trying
to get back at his father.
>>LISA: Let's talk a
little bit about horses,
and I know you're a big
horse communicator as well.
There's a wonderful
picture of you
hugging a horse in the field.
Tell me about horses, and how
do you communicate with them.
They seem like they so
want to communicate.
>>KINKADE: They do.
Horses are some of the
most experienced healers
on this planet.
>>LISA: They are.
>>KINKADE: And they're so in
tune with the human beings.
One of the stories, I think
I put this story in "Straight
from the Horse's
Mouth," that I went
to do a private reading
in Southern California.
Now sometimes I am, I'm
back in Los Angeles.
I'm about to be teaching
at the Glen ivy which
is so exciting down in
Corona and will also
be working with
horses down there.
>>LISA: Oh, great.
>>KINKADE: And as I'm walking
through the horse barn,
the horses will come up and
say, will you talk to my mother?
Will you talk to my father?
Will you talk to my-- and
they'll yell out their names.
So as I'm walking through,
I'm hearing Christy, Miriam,
Allison, Bob.
And one of them was really
insistent, and said,
will you talk to my mother?
Well, I was there to
see a different client,
and her horse, and
I said, I don't even
know if your mother
believes in any of this,
but we'll try to get
the word that you
need to talk to your mother.
I said what does your
human mother look like?
And the horse showed
me a blond woman
with a broken wrist, a cast on
her wrist, on her left wrist.
And he said, I need to talk
to her, because I threw her,
and I want to apologize.
>>LISA: Oh, wow.
>>KINKADE: And to
make it even crazier,
this is where it gets
very interesting.
>>LISA: Remember I talked about
challenging belief systems?
>>KINKADE: Well, everybody
who owns a horse,
or is owned by a
horse, will understand,
this isn't that
much of a challenge,
that they're in
contact with you.
We don't ride around
on our cat's backs.
>>LISA: Right.
>>KINKADE: Horses
are a herd animal.
They're already telepathic.
They're in tune with each other.
They're a group.
They're a very loving,
listening, sensitive group.
If there's a
predator introduced,
all the horses will react to
try to protect each other.
They're not
competitive by nature.
They're a very loving,
docile prey animal.
They're not a predator.
So this horse, who has his
human on his back all the time,
said to me, she needs an
emergency hysterectomy.
And my vision was just
the pain, and the blood,
and I thought wow,
does she know?
And he said, well, she's
struggling with it.
You need to tell her.
So when I met with the woman,
who had a cast on her wrist,
and the blond hair,
and he had thrown her,
and he got to apologize,
because it was a mistake.
He just lost his
footing on a hillside.
I told her, I said,
you've got some problems
that you need to address.
And she, within a
couple of weeks,
she had an emergency
hysterectomy.
She died on the table.
>>LISA: Oh, my god.
>>KINKADE: Had an out of
body experience, came back.
And he knew before she did.
>>LISA: Oh, my
god, what a story.
>>KINKADE: Ooh, I
have a story for you.
>>LISA: Oh, you have
so many stories.
Well, wait, I've got
to ask you about,
because you have
pictures of when
I talked to you about
this picture of the animal
in their stalls, you said
horses don't necessarily
love being in these stalls.
>>KINKADE: Well, it would
be as if somebody puts you
in a shower stall.
And you were allowed
out for one hour a day,
and during that one hour, you
had to be the perfect slave.
And god forbid you had
a toothache that day,
or you had a stomach
ache that day.
Or maybe you wanted to
get to know a male horse,
or maybe they shipped
out your best friend,
or maybe they won't
let you breed.
Or maybe they bred you,
and they sold your baby.
And, of course, eventually
it's going to add up.
>>LISA: Where would
they rather be?
In the pasture under the stars.
>>KINKADE: Acting like a horse.
>>LISA: Acting like
a horse with herds.
>>KINKADE: In a herd with
their noses together talking
about their day.
>>LISA: Well, tell me
about the Olympic horse.
>>KINKADE: The Olympic horse
is also a similar story.
Seven weeks before the Olympics,
one of the top horses on Earth
just threw his toys.
He just decided, nope,
it's not happening.
>>LISA: I'm not racing?
>>KINKADE: This is
not on, just not on.
He was supposed to
win the Olympics.
He's one of the top
jumpers in the world.
So I flew to Germany to go
meet this magnificent horse.
>>LISA: You were called to
come and communicate with him.
>>KINKADE: To see if he would
tell me what was happening.
Now when I teach,
I teach you how
to use your body
as an instrument.
I literally have
students going, ow.
Or, oh, oh.
>>LISA: Interesting.
>>KINKADE: Oh, and that doesn't
have to do with whether or not
you think you're a
spiritual person,
or how much you meditate.
That has to do with how in
touch you are with your body.
I could have a room full
of football players,
and they're going to go, oh,
you see that German shepherd?
She's limping right there.
A bad knee-- because they're
more in touch on a quantum
level with their cells.
>>LISA: OK.
>>KINKADE: So this
horse was getting
all these grueling
tests, and vets
were flying in from
all over the world
and convinced it was
a physical problem.
And I asked him,
what's going on?
One of the beauties of
animal communication
is that sometimes
you can't determine
whether an emotional
problem or a health problem
have exactly the same symptoms.
I mean, if you've
got a cat that's
grieving the loss
of her mate, she
may have the same symptoms
as stomach cancer.
She won't eat.
She's lethargic.
>>LISA: I see.
>>KINKADE: She's sick.
>>LISA: And it's emotional.
>>KINKADE: With
horses, they colic,
because there's such
emotional beings.
But when I met him, I
said what's going on?
He said, I want a girlfriend.
>>LISA: The horse said that?
He was done with racing.
He wanted a girlfriend.
>>KINKADE: Yeah, well, he
said, what's in it for me?
Every week I go
win, and how long
do I have to be
on this treadmill?
And when do I get a family?
When do I get a girlfriend?
When do I get children?
When do I get to
stand in a field
and eat grass under the
stars and act like a horse?
If I can actually say,
you've got three years.
You win the Olympics,
and then you'll get this.
We can negotiate.
And the beautiful thing
about this situation,
he said he had a best friend
that was a gorgeous bay
horse that never got to
compete at this level,
and that he wanted his best
friend to go to the Olympics,
because it was his turn to win.
>>LISA: So how did he
communicate that to you?
With pictures?
>>KINKADE: He shows me a
picture of the bay horse.
He shows me the love
he has for the horse.
He shows me himself being
taken off to the shows
while his best friend
has to stay at home.
And he wants the best friend
to go out and have the glory
and win.
This happens just
lightning fast,
but it's not that different
from watching a movie.
You're taking in a
lot of information
when you're watching a movie.
So I'm taking in as much
as quickly as I can.
>>LISA: And you said that
he saw in the distance
another horse that did
have a girlfriend, right?
>>KINKADE: Well, it
was an all-male barn.
And they had-- come to find
out they'd brought in one mare.
And they gave the mare
to one of his buddies
who was across from
him, so he could
see his buddy with
the new girlfriend,
but he wasn't allowed to
have a new girlfriend.
And one of the biggest
accomplishments of my life
is that they took his best
friend to the Olympics instead
of him who did extremely well.
They got him a girlfriend,
and now he's winning again.
>>LISA: Oh, really?
Oh, my goodness, and now
was the owner skeptical,
or were you preaching to the
choir when this man brought you
in.
Did he hear about you
because he understands
animal communication?
>>KINKADE: Well, the horse
world is far more advanced
than a lot of other species.
I mean, that's not
true in Africa.
>>LISA: Right.
>>KINKADE: And it's actually
not even true with farmers.
If I'm working in rural
England or Germany,
and there's something wrong
with the farmer's sheep,
he's serious.
This is not a joke.
He wants to know what's
wrong with my sheep?
What's wrong with my chickens?
>>LISA: This is his livelihood.
>>KINKADE: What's
wrong with my horse?
>>LISA: Of course.
>>KINKADE: And a lot of
these people genuinely
love these animals, and
they genuinely care.
And in Africa, you're
living alongside them.
If something's wrong with a
wild lion, you need to know.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>KINKADE: You need to know.
>>LISA: We actually have
a beautiful picture of you
in the wild with
these gorgeous lions.
This is such a
beautiful picture.
Now are you in a safari area?
>>KINKADE: And you are coming.
>>LISA: Apparently.
>>KINKADE: You are
coming, and then you
can see for yourself, Lisa,
exactly what goes on in Africa.
>>LISA: Well, my
husband was just there,
and he said that in the
safari that he was on,
he watched from about a mile
away with these animals,
and they were further
out in the distance.
>>KINKADE: I watched
from five feet
away when the lions
came up to the truck.
>>LISA: Do you call
them ahead of time?
>>KINKADE: They call
me ahead of time.
>>LISA: They call you.
>>KINKADE: They call
me ahead of time,
and I see where
they're going to be,
and I see how many
there are going to be.
And I see what the
issues are, and why
they're taking the meeting.
But when I take people on these
safaris and our entire agenda
is simply to love
them, to worship
and adore them with all the
reverence that they deserve.
That we can look at
God's masterpieces
with nothing but joy and
awe, and an open heart
and an open mind.
When there is information
coming in, you'll hear it!
You'll be given
that information.
And then you'll know
how to help them.
>>LISA: So we actually
have a great picture of you
as well in the wild with these--
these are cheetahs, right?
>>KINKADE: Those are cheetah.
And that was at Cheetah
Outreach at Cape Town.
And I absolutely love Cape Town.
And the cheetah-- also, this
was also a wonderful story.
I went into the sanctuary,
and one of the cheetah
was depressed.
Here's case in point.
That could be a toothache.
That could be a stomach ache.
That could be a back problem.
Who knows?
Who knows what's going on?
I said, what's happening?
He said they moved my mate out.
I said what's your mate's
name, he said, Charlie.
And this is a male cheetah.
And I went, your
girlfriend's name is Charlie?
He said, Charlie.
She's been shipped up north, and
he was absolutely despondent.
They confirmed that he
had a mate named Charlie
that they'd sent up to De Ville
to have her breed with somebody
else, because they're trying
to keep the genetics clean.
And they didn't want
these two together.
>>LISA: Oh.
>>KINKADE: It's a
breeding program.
Well, he was
heartbroken and furious.
>>LISA: Now you mentioned
to me that they give--
>>KINKADE: And
they were reunited.
>>LISA: They were.
>>KINKADE: They were reunited.
I got to go up and
see Charlie, and I
said, you need to
get this over with,
which boy do you
think is really hot?
She named him by name.
And I said, that's
the one she wants.
She wants to be
with that cheetah.
Put them together, let
them get it over with,
so she can get home
to her husband.
And they did.
>>LISA: Oh, my goodness.
>>KINKADE: But you know what?
You don't have anything to lose.
And if the animal is giving
so many detailed facts
that you can't dispute, then why
would you not act on something
that has to do with
behavior change.
>>LISA: So this cheetah had
her cubs, and she had her cubs,
and there was another
mate that was around
as the kind of the surrogate,
or the father figure,
and she was happy, right?
>>KINKADE: Well, yeah, they
took her away from her husband.
It would be no different than
if somebody took you away
from your husband.
>>LISA: But you said
they wanted to keep
the lines clean,
the genetic lines.
>>KINKADE: They
intermingle genetics
with the cheetah to try to
keep them from interbreeding.
>>LISA: OK.
>>KINKADE: So they had to
move his partner elsewhere,
but he didn't like
that idea at all.
And then they did reunite
them, and he was fine again.
>>LISA: So one of
the first things
you said when we started the
show was about how humans
really feel that they can
control the animal species.
And it seems like
that has gotten
to be such a standard thing
where, as you're talking about,
that we give animals
contraceptives.
That we tell them when they
can and they cannot breed,
and who they should breed with.
I mean, how far
away have we gotten
from their natural habitat
and is this a problem?
>>KINKADE: Well,
it's a huge problem.
And, honestly, one of the issues
that we're having in Africa,
one of my students who
started a charity to move
all Indian tigers to Africa,
because there's nowhere else
to put them.
I worked with one of the last
remaining Sumatran tiger cubs.
She's a beautiful baby.
She's in England, but there are
less than 200 Sumatran tigers
in this world.
I had a Siberian tiger cub that
was eight days old in my lap
in Johannesburg.
His eyes weren't even open yet.
And he's bumbling around
threatening to kill me.
He just looks like a
little furry pumpkin.
It was the cutest thing
I've ever seen in my life.
I'm going to see him again.
And, of course,
introduce you to him
if you want to come with me.
>>LISA: I want to go on-- I
would go on safari with you,
by all means, because
you have the ability
to communicate with these
animals ahead of time.
So let's learn a little
bit how we can do that.
Do you send out messages?
Do you see pictures?
Do you attract them to
you with your pictures?
>>KINKADE: The
first thing that I'm
going to do is completely
flatline my frequency.
So rather than going
into a situation where
we're going to talk
and ignore the cat.
>>LISA: OK.
>>KINKADE: Or we're
blah, blah, blah.
We're going to ignore
the elephant or the lion.
I'm going to completely silence
my mind, silence my emotion,
and go into a state
of meditation.
When you want to
connect to that animal,
you're going to send out a beam
of starlight out of your heart.
It's going to reach and touch
the heart of that animal
and light them up.
>>LISA: Oh, OK.
>>KINKADE: And anything
that you want to ask
can be asked by means of
sending a particular emotion.
You can say to your
cat, when you're angry,
what do you experience?
So the first connection
is the unconditional love.
I call that resogenesis.
That's establishing
resonance, so that I'm now
going to vibrate on the
frequency of this lion.
If you can imagine that
you're in a pool of water,
and you're on a raft, and
you're completely still.
If a boat goes by, it's going
to send a wave of energy.
>>LISA: Right, right.
>>KINKADE: If
you're still, you're
going to vibrate on that wave.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>KINKADE: You can't
help but vibrate
on that wave,
because you're still.
So the elephant is
sending a wave of emotion.
The shark is sending
a wave of emotion.
You're little house cat is
sending a wave of emotion.
And there's intelligence
on those frequencies.
There's quantum
holographic information
on those frequencies.
It's no different from the
way a television program is
transmitted throughout
the atmosphere.
>>LISA: You've had
such an amazing life.
I saw one of the videos
on your website of you
in a shark tank
communicating with sharks.
>>KINKADE: Oh, I love them.
I love them.
What just happened,
and when I start
teaching in April
in Corona, I'm going
to be taking students
out on a whale boat.
Because I went down two weeks
ago to do some reconnaissance.
One of my girlfriends
is a veterinarian,
one of my students who's
now become a girlfriend,
and she was having a
birthday party on Sunday
and had invited 12 women
down for her birthday
party on this whale boat.
Well, I said to her, I don't
think they can wait that long.
I mean, they know
that I'm coming.
And I went down there on Friday,
and on Saturday, the whale
said, sorry we can't wait.
We're here.
We're here now.
We're waiting for you.
You have to come now.
And I said to the captain,
they're out there.
There are five of them.
And the matriarch of
the pod signaled me.
And I said, who are you with?
And she said, well,
I'm with my son,
and then there are three others.
I said, who are they?
She says, my sister
and her two children.
And they're huge, I mean, huge.
I wasn't sure if
they were orcas.
They were huge.
And I said to the
captain, they're here.
We got to go.
And thank heavens,
my student was
so open minded she canceled
the birthday party.
She said we can't
wait until Sunday.
We gotta go now.
The captain throws me on
the boat, we go taking off.
Five fin whales
came out of nowhere
and surrounded the boat.
So I'm sending out
is unconditional love
on a silver platter, just
saying, I love you, I love you,
I love you.
I just can't wait to see you,
and visualizing what you do
want.
Visualizing them
swimming toward the boat.
You and I had that
conversation about dolphins
that didn't show up for you.
>>LISA: Right.
>>KINKADE: And I had
over 100 dolphins.
>>LISA: I was waiting
for the dolphins,
and that's what I was
visualizing was waiting.
>>KINKADE: No.
You call the dolphins.
>>LISA: Hmm, so you called
them to come to you.
You asked them please come?
>>KINKADE: You visualize
what you do want.
You see them in your mind
swimming toward the boat.
You see them coming
closer and closer.
You see them so close.
I didn't even know
whales were this big,
or could get this
close to the boat.
It was almost scary.
They could have
toppled the boat.
>>LISA: Right.
That's how big they were.
>>KINKADE: They
were under our boat.
>>LISA: And boats can't go
within a certain distance
to the animals.
You have to wait for
them to come to you.
Right?
OK.
>>KINKADE: But I'm inviting
them to come embrace my love.
I'm just there to love them.
I'm there to translate for them.
I'm there to be open.
I'm not coming with an agenda.
I don't say to, even the
show horse in the Olympics,
I want you to do this.
I want you to do--
I don't do that.
I don't manipulate or
try to dominate them.
I say, I'm an ambassador
between species.
I'm here for you.
How can I help you?
What do you want?
What do you need?
>>LISA: Well, what about the
whole Cesar Millan concept
where you need to be
in charge of your dog
and you need to
teach discipline.
>>KINKADE: It's the same.
Because Cesar teaches
you are-- and that
is energy in a dog suit.
You have to be the
source of their calm,
be the source of
their peacefulness.
What alpha means: relaxed,
confident, and in charge.
Now I'm going to
say to the shark,
I'm relaxed, confident,
and in charge.
And I'm going to be still and
wait for you to come to me.
And we'll do that
later with a cat,
and you'll see
exactly what I mean.
The pack leader is always still.
Cesar is doing this.
He's visualizing
what he does want.
Now most people will visualize,
don't bite, don't bite.
>>LISA: Right.
>>KINKADE: And the
dog goes, well, I
don't know why she
wants me to bite.
>>LISA: Because they
just see the picture.
>>KINKADE: She's showing me
the picture of me biting,
and her energy matches it.
The woman's going
to send the fear.
Oh, my dog attacks everybody,
and the dog's like, well, I
don't know why she wants
me to attack everybody,
but I have to protect
her, because she's
such an neurotic kook.
And if you're not that,
and if you're the opposite,
you just say, relax
your body past this dog.
We're peaceful, we're
happy, we're confident.
We're quiet.
We're loving.
We're together.
Everything, I don't care if
it's a tiger with a head that's
this big, the tigers
will come over and go.
What's she doing?
>>LISA: Is that what you do?
I mean, those pictures
of you with the elephants
and so forth, you embody that.
I mean, I always notice, and I
love Cesar's show, is he always
winds up talking, of
course, to the adult
or to the person who is
in the household with him.
I'm not going to
call them the owners.
And that's where he
spends most of his time.
So for advice for
people who have
animals who are
biting or attacking,
what do you tell those people?
>>KINKADE: They're mirroring
the people's energy.
Animals are going
to mirror to you
what you least want to look at.
There's a Jungian concept
of what we've put in shadow.
What we put in shadow,
our animals will act out.
>>LISA: Wow.
Whoa, so you have to be
really clear and really clean
in your state of mind
in order for your animal
to match that vibration.
>>KINKADE: That's why they're
our greatest spiritual teacher.
Because if you get
upset and neurotic.
I mean, I can't
tell you how many
cases I've done where I tune
into the dog or the cat,
I hear the couple fighting.
I hear her on the phone
fighting with her mother.
I hear her screaming at her son.
So what happens, the
dog starts doing this.
The dog gets allergy problems.
The cat starts vomiting.
The cat is acting out.
The cat's frantic
and peeing where he
shouldn't, or scratching
things that he shouldn't.
Because what's he going
to do with that energy?
He's going to take
the negativity
and try to process it.
If we bring them as much
beauty and peace as we can,
that gives them
the space to have
a happy home and a happy life.
>>LISA: I'm sure, I mean, if
you just try it, it would work.
And I know if I'm ever sick,
and if I'm at home in bed,
I will have all four cats on
my body in about five minutes.
>>KINKADE: Isn't
that interesting?
>>LISA: They're little healers,
and they just they understand,
they know, and they come
and they just lay on me
and heal me.
They're amazing animals.
You're going to get to meet
one of them in a minute.
>>KINKADE: Yeah, I can't wait.
>>LISA: I've got a
quick question for you
about nine lives and cats.
What is that?
Do they really have nine lives?
I mean, what does that mean?
>>KINKADE: They really do.
Cats are one of the most
magical beings on this planet.
And they're able to access
realms of peace and dimensions
of beauty that human beings
don't have access to.
And you might not know
when your husband's sick,
the way your cat will
know when you're sick.
You might not wake
up in the morning
and go, oh, his left
shoulder is sore.
But you'll look over
and the cat will
be on that sore left shoulder.
She'll know.
>>LISA: Interesting,
very interesting.
>>KINKADE: And they do go into
these dimensions of healing.
They reinvent themselves,
and they come back
with new vitality.
They're our healing and
meditation teachers.
>>LISA: Well, we have a
video of you communicating
with the animals, and I want
you to take a look at this,
and when we come
back, we're going
to learn how to communicate
with house pets.
And my daughter, Kayla's
going to be with us,
and our friendly
housecat, Master Zen,
is going to join us
as well in the studio.
Take a look at this video.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>>NARRATOR: Amelia
Kinkade is a real life Dr.
Doolittle, an
animal communicator.
Her ability to converse
with all living creatures
has rated her one of the top
hundred psychics in the world.
>>KINKADE: All animals
think in pictures.
The only species that's
isolated themselves
from the communication that's
going on all over the world
is man.
>>MALE SPEAKER: So is
it like seeing movies
or do you hear things?
>>KINKADE: It's a voice, but
it's not like a madman's voice.
It's not coming in
from the outside.
It's welling up from the inside.
Did you see a toy?
>>AUDIENCE: There's a red and
yellow striped-- it's a crab,
and it has all these legs.
>>KINKADE: You said
a red and yellow bug?
Good.
When you move into
using intuition,
you're going to feel and
sense and see everything.
You smell things, you taste
things, you see things.
And it might not
all happen at once.
You might get a
glimpse of a vision,
not know what you're looking at.
You might hear a word, and
not know what it relates to.
All right, I got a big one
real loud, real strong.
Ask her what her
boyfriend looks like.
>>NARRATOR: Amelia
discovered her own gift
15 years ago in a
workshop like this one
she held in Johannesburg.
At the time, she was an
actress in Hollywood,
now her clients are
the pets of the stars.
>>KINKADE: I stumbled into
this completely by accident.
And one of the beauties
of what I now teach
is that I didn't have
any knowledge of animal
communication.
I certainly didn't think
that I was capable of it.
And I went into that
workshop thinking
I'd be the last person in
the world who could do it.
And when I discovered
that I could do it,
then I discovered that
everyone can do it.
>>LISA: All right, now
joining me in studio
is Kayla, my daughter,
and our little house cat,
Zen, Master Zen, who this
is her first time on camera,
both of you, and Amelia.
So Zen's obviously curious
about what's going on.
She's about 13, 12
or 13 years old.
We recently, we saved
her little life.
She went through a
pretty traumatic surgery
where she swallowed something,
and it lacerated her tummy
about six months ago.
>>KINKADE: OK, now
Lisa, first of all,
I can't scold you
on your own show,
but what you just
did is you told
me negative things about her.
>>LISA: Oh.
>>KINKADE: And her age.
Now, if I were introducing you,
that would be like me saying,
this is my friend, Lisa, she's
49, and she has PMS today,
and she's gained 15 pounds
in the last two weeks.
And she keeps fighting
with her husband.
I don't know what's
wrong with her.
OK.
>>LISA: You've got
a good point there.
>>KINKADE: So we don't
mention age of female cats.
>>LISA: OK.
And we don't say
anything negative
about her body or her past.
We don't say anything
negative about her in any way.
>>LISA: I'm sorry, sweetie.
OK.
>>KINKADE: So now what we do
know, is that she's a TV star.
She's the mother of
this entire family.
She keeps everybody together,
even though she was not
allowed to have a family
of kittens of her own.
So she considers you
all to be her children.
But when we open with
that wave of love,
now if you could envision that
your chest is like a star.
And you're a shining star.
You've got rays of starlight
coming out of your chest
and out of your back.
And if you want to connect
to her, all you have to do
is send a wave of that
starlight, that ray of love
reaches out and touches her.
Now listen to her
purr when you do that.
>>KAYLA: Oh.
>>KINKADE: See how
comfortable she is?
And in that quiet,
there's nothing but love.
She's purring in admiration.
I'm going to tell her that
she's the most beautiful cat
in the whole world.
>>KAYLA: You're the
most beautiful cat
in the whole world.
>>KINKADE: And
permission to pet would
be to wait for her to touch
her nose to your hand.
Now she's done it already,
before we got her out
of the carrier.
So it's unlikely that
she'll do it again.
But that's how you
say, hello, then you're
allowed to touch only the top
of her head and under here.
And if you want her
to completely relax,
you hum a little
love song, and it's
going to mirror
her mother's purr.
[HUMMING]
>>LISA: She's
snuggling into your--
>>KINKADE: Now come here.
You're still on camera.
You're still a star.
>>KAYLA: Come on,
you're the movie star.
>>KINKADE: Now, Lisa, I'm
sorry to have curbed that.
>>LISA: That's OK.
That's an important lesson.
It's a very important lesson.
>>KINKADE: But people do
that on a regular basis
with their animals.
Every time they introduce me
to the animal, they'll say,
oh, she's blind in one eye,
and she's got diabetes,
and she's limping,
and I'm like, no.
Let's talk about what
we love about her.
Let's talk about what's
beautiful about her.
>>LISA: You taught me, or I
learned on one of your videos
that when cats blink slowly,
that's a sign of love.
>>KINKADE: It's a
calming signal, which
is how they say hello,
and it means, greetings,
I love you in cat language.
>>LISA: She did that.
That's great.
>>KINKADE: And it's a
two blinker process.
So you blink, and
then she blinks.
And then you blink again,
and she blinks again.
Then she'll either lick
her lips, or she'll yawn.
And they also do
this in the wild.
This is how you would call
a lion to your safari truck.
I slow blink her.
I wait for her to slow blink me.
I really slow blink you.
I really love you.
And she'll go, oh, this
person can speak cat.
And then the lion will yawn, and
then they'll pose for pictures.
They'll go, oh, did you
see my good side darling?
Oh, do you get this side?
And then if you just
sit there in silence--
I don't let people take
pictures right off the bat.
The lions get up,
and they walk over
and they come over to the truck.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>KAYLA: Wow.
>>KINKADE: And the elephants
surround the truck.
>>LISA: Wow, and normally
they would be afraid of it.
>>KINKADE: And everything.
Everything.
Hippos come over.
I had a baby hippo follow me
back to my chalet the last time
I was in Zambia.
>>LISA: So other than sending
the message, and the star
light from the
chest, radiating out
of your back, and
the blinking hellos,
what else can she do
to communicate or calm.
She's doing great now.
>>KINKADE: She's doing great.
>>LISA: She's doing great.
>>KINKADE: Once you've
established that, now you
have a new level of friendship
where you can just be together.
She trusts you.
So you're not making noise.
You're not on the phone.
You're not watching TV.
You're not on the computer.
You're just going to be with
her, and ask her about her day,
or about her history.
>>LISA: How about how she
feels with the two new kitties
that we've gotten in the house.
We got two rescue
kitties in the house.
>>KINKADE: Well,
let's say that you
are able to make
that connection,
and now you're going to pretend
that you are her, that you're
inside her body, you're
looking out her eyes.
Now I want you to
visualize one of those cats
walks into the room, but--
this is called Gestalt.
This is a very advanced Gestalt.
>>LISA: OK.
>>KINKADE: You're in her body,
you see this cat approaching.
How do you feel?
>>KAYLA: Well, I
would feel concerned
that my friend, or
me, when I was Zen,
that she would go over and pet
them instead of petting me.
Like, they come up, and they
steal my spot sometimes.
>>KINKADE: Oh.
Now that's exactly what I got.
When I went into that
situation in her body,
I felt this tension, I
felt my stomach clench up.
I felt a territorial
battle, like, oh, they're
going to steal my spot.
And I felt myself
wanting to get up high.
So I felt more in
control of my space.
She's threatened by them.
You need to tell her, you're
the queen of this house.
It's your job to welcome
in the two new cats,
teach them the house rules.
You're in charge.
>>LISA: We have a
picture of those two cats
up on the screen, that she's
taking a look at right now.
Yeah, so how do you integrate
new kittens new animals
into a house?
>>KINKADE: You say
to the cat, who
is the matriarch, the one
that's been in the house.
It's their territory.
I've brought some
new kittens for you.
They're not for me.
They're for you.
Would you please teach
them the house rules?
Would you please take over
and be in charge of them?
So that she's dominant.
She's not going to compete
with those cats for attention.
You're giving those cats to her.
Say they're your cats.
>>LISA: What if she
doesn't want them?
>>KINKADE: They are
amazingly benevolent.
Cats live in colonies, and
they're social creatures.
And chances are, if
you ask correctly,
she will be really
generous and take them in.
>>LISA: What are animals as
a species wanting us to know,
in general, just as
a general question?
>>KINKADE: A lot of
it is simply this.
Why can't you be calm and
quiet, and sit with me,
and simply enjoy being alive?
Enjoy the flowers.
Enjoy the sunshine.
Enjoy the fact that we
have food and water,
and create music, and
let's enjoy our lives.
>>LISA: And just be more
peaceful around them.
What happens if we
approach an animal who
we know is being abused
or feel is being abused?
How can make them feel safer?
>>KINKADE: All the
more reason to come
from that anchor
of light and power.
To be able to send that love to
the ones who need it the most.
When you look at the very first
few pictures on my website
are an elephant
that I was working
with in Chiang Mai in
Thailand and that elephant
was blinded by her own Mahout.
Horrendous stories.
All the elephants at the
Elephant Nature Foundation
have been rescued from
terrible situations.
And if we throw up our hands and
say, there's nothing we can do.
Oh, it's so terrible.
I'm going to cry.
I can't go into this situation.
Then you can't be that
agent of peace and power
that God created you to be.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>KINKADE: Your job
is to go in there
and say, yes, the
humans have hurt you.
Yes, you're in pain.
I love you, and I'm
here for you now.
>>LISA: And you're in
a safe place with me,
and I can make you feel safe.
We've learned so
much, and I thank
you so much for being here.
>>KINKADE: Oh, and I'm
going to give you-- this
is my first illustrated
children's novel.
And this one is about
a little girl who's
12 years old who
looks a lot like you,
and she learns how to
communicate with animals.
It's a fantasy story.
>>LISA: That's wonderful.
Thank you so much, Amelia.
>>KAYLA: Thank you.
>>LISA: Thank you
so much, Amelia.
And you're doing such
incredible work in the world.
The very first book
you had was, "Straight
from the Horse's Mouth."
That was her first book,
really great, great books.
>>KINKADE: And this is one
of my other latest ones.
This is "Soul Mates with
Paws, Hooves, and Wings."
And it's just love stories
about how animals can teach us
all sorts of wisdom about life
and laughter, and love and joy,
and even the fact that there's
no such thing as death.
Some people get
appearances of animals
after they've crossed
the Rainbow Bridge when
they haven't gotten any
messages from humans
when they've passed away.
>>LISA: They're very
clear communicators.
>>KINKADE: But they do get
messages from their animals.
>>LISA: Well, it shows
how clear animals are,
and how easy it
is to communicate
with animals and
with humans, as well.
You've been amazing.
Thank you so much, Amelia.
And thank you, Kayla,
for being with me.
>>KAYLA: You're welcome.
>>KINKADE: Can I
be your cat sitter?
I want to be her
fairy godmother.
I think we're in love now.
>>LISA: Yes, and thank
you, Zen, for being a star.
>>KAYLA: She says
you're welcome.
>>LISA: And thank you so much
for being a part of this.
I hope that you learned
as much as I did.
And if you'd like to share my
interview with Amelia Kinkade,
you can go to gaiamtv.com and
share it with your friends.
And until next time, I
invite you to stay inspired.
[MUSIC PLAYING]